ui/frontend/public/docs/about.md, before:

# Evidence Lab

![Evidence Lab Architecture](/docs/images/evidence-lab.png)

Evidence Lab is a free open source prototyping platform that provides a document pipeline, search, and AI-powered information discovery tools. The aim is to provide a quick start for those looking to use AI with their documents and a place where new ideas can be tested.

You can run the code yourself, or explore the online version at [evidencelab.ai](https://evidencelab.ai) which has so far been populated with about 20,000 United Nations humanitarian evaluation reports sourced from the [United Nations Evaluation Group](https://www.un.org/evaluations). See [Data](/data) for more information on these amazing documents.

If you would like to have your public documents added to Evidence Lab, or would like to contribute to the project, please reach out to [evidencelab@astrobagel.com](mailto:evidencelab@astrobagel.com).

Also, for the latest news check out the [AstroBagel Blog](https://medium.com/@astrobagel).

## Philosophy

Evidence Lab grew out of research work for the AstroBagel Blog. The core design principles are:

- **Runs on a desktop** — the full pipeline can process 20,000 30-page documents in a week for less than $50
- **Configurable** — point it at a folder of PDFs and configure via a single config.json
- **Progressive complexity** — start with simple parsing and layer on richer features (image annotation, reranking) later without re-processing
- **Model-agnostic** — supports both open-source and proprietary embedding and LLM models
- **Observable** — built-in tools for monitoring pipeline progress and exploring AI retrieval quality

Some lofty, often conflicting, goals! Always a work in progress, and low-cost high-speed processing which runs on a desktop computer, does come with a few shortcuts. To run on a modest server, the user interface might not be the fastest out there (but can be if you add more processing power), and in not using expensive LLMs for parsing, the ingestion had to be tuned to the document data styles. That said, the design has tried to allow for future improvements.

## Features

Evidence Lab document processing pipeline includes the following features:

### Processing pipeline

- PDF/Word parsing with Docling, to include document structure detection
- Footnote and references, images and table detection
- Basic table extraction, with support for more expensive processing as required
- AI-assisted document summarization
- AI-assisted tagging of documents
- Indexing with Open (Huggingface) or proprietary models (Azure foundry, but extensible)

### User interface

- Hybrid search with AI summary and reranking
- Experimental features such as heatmapper for tracking trends in content
- Filtering by metadata, in-document section types
- Search and reranking settings to explore different models
- Auto min score filtering using percentile-based thresholding (filters bottom 30% of results)
- Semantic highlighting in search results
- Basic language translation
- PDF preview with in-document search
- Administration views to track pipeline, documents, performance and errors

More features will be added soon, focused on document evidence analysis.

Commit message:

fix(ui): update doc pages content, styling and navigation label
- Rename Help dropdown to Info in top bar
- Change bold text color from brand blue to dark charcoal on doc pages
- Update tech.md: note Azure Foundry embedding and reranker support, remove Google Vertex references
- Update about.md: revise copy, add heatmapper link, restructure sections
- Update data pages: remove World Bank references

ui/frontend/public/docs/about.md, after:

# Evidence Lab

![Evidence Lab Architecture](/docs/images/evidence-lab.png)

Evidence Lab is a free open source platform that provides a document pipeline, search, and AI-powered information discovery and evidence mining tools. The aim is to provide a quick start for those looking to use AI with their documents and a place where new ideas can be tested.

You can run the code yourself, or explore the online version at [evidencelab.ai](https://evidencelab.ai) which has so far been populated with about 20,000 United Nations humanitarian evaluation reports sourced from the [United Nations Evaluation Group](https://www.un.org/evaluations). See [Data](/data) for more information on these amazing documents.

## Philosophy

Evidence Lab grew out of research work for the AstroBagel Blog. The core design principles are:

- **Runs on a desktop** — the full pipeline can process 20,000 30-page documents in a week for less than $50
- **Configurable** — point it at a folder of PDFs and configure via a single config.json
- **Progressive complexity** — start with simple parsing and layer on richer features (image annotation, reranking) later without re-processing
- **Model-agnostic** — supports both open-source and proprietary embedding and LLM models
- **Observable** — built-in tools for monitoring pipeline progress and exploring AI retrieval quality

Some lofty, often conflicting, goals!

Always a work in progress, and low-cost high-speed processing which runs on a desktop computer, does come with a few shortcuts. Parsing isn't perfect, performance isn't lighting speed, but the aim is to provide a good foundation to be improved upon later.

## Features

Evidence Lab document processing pipeline includes the following features:

### Processing pipeline

- PDF/Word parsing with Docling, to include document structure detection
- Footnote and references, images and table detection
- Basic table extraction, with support for more expensive processing as required
- AI-assisted document summarization
- AI-assisted tagging of documents
- Indexing with Open (Huggingface) or proprietary models (Azure foundry, but extensible)

### User interface

- Hybrid search with AI summary and reranking
- Experimental features such as [Heatmapper](/http://localhost:3000/heatmap?dataset=UN+Humanitarian+Evaluation+Reports&model=azure_small&model_combo=Azure+Foundry&tab=heatmap&hm_row=document_type&hm_col=published_year&hm_metric=documents&hm_sens=0.2&published_year=2021%2C2022%2C2023%2C2024%2C2025) for tracking trends in content
- Filtering by metadata, in-document section types
- Search and reranking settings to explore different models
- Semantic highlighting in search results
- Basic language translation
- PDF preview with in-document search
- Administration views to track pipeline, documents, performance and errors

More features will be added soon, focused on document evidence analysis.

For more detailed information on how the above features have been implemented, mosey on over to [Tech](/tech).

## Get involved

If you would like to have your public documents added to Evidence Lab for research, or would like to contribute to the project, please reach out to [evidencelab@astrobagel.com](mailto:evidencelab@astrobagel.com).

Also, for the latest news check out the [AstroBagel Blog](https://medium.com/@astrobagel).
