ui/frontend/public/docs/heatmapper.md, before:

Heatmapper is a quick way to analyze lots of documents to see trends in document tags and types as part of evidence research. It generates a grid showing search results for combinations of document attributes you provide, allowing you to see where there are gaps as well as peaks in activity.

Another way to think of it is as a grid search.

For example, you can view:

- The number of documents by type **X** published each year
- The number of documents by AI-generated tag **X** publishing organization
- The number of search hits by queries you provide **X** year

.. and more!

You can get granular, filtering searches down the individual documents and queries.

Heatmapper can run in two modes, depending on whether you want to refine results using search queries:

- If you use search queries to filter your data, the system searches document content and counts the unique documents in the search results (noting that one document can have multiple search hits). This will focus on *top* search hits and so might not retrieve all documents in the system, just those most closely aligned with your query
- Otherwise, if you don't use queries, the counts are simply the documents which have the attributes you define, and so will include many more documents

You can also drill down into the underlying content to view individual documents and paragraphs as well as export to Excel for further offline analysis.

Commit message:

docs(ui): improve heatmapper documentation with mode descriptions

ui/frontend/public/docs/heatmapper.md, after:

Heatmapper is a quick way to analyze lots of documents to see trends in document tags and types as part of evidence research. It generates a grid showing search results for combinations of document attributes you provide, allowing you to see where there are gaps as well as peaks in activity.

Another way to think of it is as a grid search.

For example, you can view:

- The number of documents by type **X** published each year
- The number of documents by AI-generated tag **X** publishing organization
- The number of search hits by queries you provide **X** year

.. and more!

You can get granular, filtering searches down the individual documents and queries.

#### Heatmapper modes

Heatmapper can run in two modes, depending on whether you want to refine results using search queries:

- **Search query mode**: If you use search queries to filter your data, the system searches document content and counts the unique documents in the search results (noting that one document can have multiple search hits). This will focus on *top* search hits and so might not retrieve all documents in the system, just those most closely aligned with your query
- **Document Attribute Mode**: Otherwise, if you don't use queries, the counts are simply the documents which have the attributes you define, and so will include many more documents

#### Data Drilldown

You can also drill down into the underlying content to view individual documents and paragraphs as well as export to Excel for further offline analysis.
