ui/frontend/public/docs/tech.md, before:

## Document Processing Pipeline

The pipeline is modular and managed by `orchestrator.py`. If you put PDF/DOCX files in some folders, each with a metadata JSON file for extra information, orchestrator will do everything else.

**Note**: Individual processing modules for downloading content are external to this repository to separate sourcing from processing logic.

### 1. Parser (`parser.py`)

The parser has been designed to be inexpensive and relatively fast, while saving assets such as images and tables which can be reprocessed later with more advanced/expensive techniques as required. The current setup is ...

Uses [Docling](https://github.com/DS4SD/docling) for advanced document understanding, leveraging its [hierarchical structure capabilities](https://ds4sd.github.io/docling/concepts/chunking/).

* **Hierarchical Parsing**: Extracts the full document structure (headers, sections, paragraphs) rather than just flat text.
* **Rich Content Capture**:
  * **Images & Tables**: Identifies and extracts images of Figures and Tables, saving them as distinct assets.
  * **Markdown Generation**: Converts the document into a structured Markdown representation where images and tables are referenced by their path.
* **Post-Processing**:
  * **Hierarchy Inference**: Uses the [docling-hierarchical-pdf](https://github.com/krrome/docling-hierarchical-pdf) post-processor to reconstruct proper heading hierarchy (e.g., ensuring "1.1" is nested under "1.0") using font size and numbering heuristics.
  * **PyMuPDF TOC Fallback**: If Docling's TOC looks low quality or empty, the parser falls back to the PDF outline (bookmarks) via PyMuPDF.
  * **Superscript Identification**: Uses geometric analysis to identify unlinked superscripts (footnotes).
  * **Caption Classification**: Reclassifies headers that are actually captions to associate them correctly with images.
  * **Encoding Cleanup**: Fixes common encoding artifacts (e.g., ligatures, Unicode replacement characters).

### 2. Chunking & Enrichment (`chunker.py`)

Transforms raw parsed text into excerpts/chunks.

* **Hierarchical Chunking**: Respects semantic boundaries (paragraphs, headers) while adhering to token limits. Merges small "orphaned" text blocks with their robust neighbors.
* **Footnote Integration**:
  * **Detection**: Identifies inline citation markers (e.g., `^12`, `[12]`).
  * **Resolution**: Scans the entire document for the corresponding footnote definition and dynamically appends the footnote text to the chunk where it is cited. This ensures that chunks containing "See Reference 12" also contain the actual text of Reference 12 for searchability.
* **Visual Enrichment**:
  * **Image Association**: Uses bounding box geometry to spatially associate extracted images with the text chunks that physically surround or reference them (e.g., a chunk containing "Figure 1" gets the actual image of Figure 1 attached).
  * **Captions**: Ensures captions are bundled with their respective images and chunks.
* **Text Reconstruction**: Rebuilds the searchable text for each chunk by combining paragraph text and structured table content, ensuring tables are searchable.

### 3. Summarization (`summarizer.py`)

Generates comprehensive document summaries using a multi-strategy approach:

* **Methodology**:

See [here](https://medium.com/data-science-collective/automatically-identifying-taxonomies-from-documents-using-the-taxoadapt-algorithm-with-ca265d87bc08) for discussion on the summarization technique ...

LLM Summarization is done using a Map-Reduce process, splitting text into chunks and summarizing in parallel. The summaries are then reduced into a single summary using the LLM.

The chunks are determined by using the document structure and matching for sections with titles similar to 'Executive summary', 'Abstract', etc. If this isn't possible, the document is split into chunks and clustered according to semantic similarity. The clusters centroid is used to find representative chunks, which are then summarized.

### 4. Tagger (`tagger.py`)

Classifies every chunk into a taxonomy (`findings`, `methodology`, `executive_summary`, etc.). This is done using a hybrid approach that combines deterministic keyword rules with LLM-based classification for ambiguous headers, coupled with TOC propagation.

It should be noted this LLM/Heuristics approach is imperfect and meant as a way to seed the system. The user interface also supports being able to correct and approve section categories, to be used to train more accurate classification models in later phases.

**Taxonomy Classification**:
The system also supports configurable document-level taxonomies (defined in `config.json`). For example, classifying documents against **Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)**. This is performed by analyzing the comprehensive document summary with an LLM and storing the results as faceted tags in the search index.

### 5. Indexer (`indexer.py`)

Prepares and stores content in **Qdrant** with placeholders for a range of vector embedding models.

* **Multi-Vector Indexing**: Stores multiple vectors per chunk to support different retrieval strategies.
  * **Dense**: Semantic vectors (defaulting to `multilingual-e5-large`, with support for Azure Foundry `text-embedding-3` models).
  * **Sparse**: BM25 keyword vectors for exact term matching.
* **Model Agnostic**: Designed to swap embedding backends (Azure Foundry, Huggingface) via configuration.
* **Document Embeddings**: Generates a separate "Document Level" embedding (Title + Summary) to support "More like this" recommendations at the document level.

## Search & Discovery

A production-grade search experience powered by hybrid retrieval and AI.

* **Hybrid Search (RRF)**: Uses Reciprocal Rank Fusion to mathematically combine results from Semantic Search (Dense) and Keyword Search (Sparse). This captures both "conceptual matches" and "exact phrase matches".
* **Intelligent Reranking**: Optionally applies a reranking step to re-score the top results, significantly improving precision. Supports Cohere Rerank (via Azure Foundry) and Jina Reranker (via Huggingface).
* **Recency Boosting**: Applies a Gaussian decay function to boost newer documents while retaining relevance for older, highly distinct matches.
* **Faceted Navigation**: Filter by Organization, Year, Language, and Format.
* **Cross-Lingual features**:
  * **Translation**: Translate search results (titles + snippets) into 10+ languages on request.
  * **Semantic Highlighting**: Highlights relevant phrases in the result snippet effectively, even when the search terms are in a different language from the result.
* **AI Search Summary**: Generates a direct answer to the user's query by synthesizing the top search results.
* **Preview & Deep-Linking**: Integrated PDF viewer that opens directly to the specific page and highlights the relevant paragraph.

## Administration & Observability

Tools for managing the pipeline and data quality.

* **Documents Dashboard**: Visual breakdown of the corpus by Agency, Year, Type, and Language.
* **Data Grid**: Filterable table of all documents with status tracking (`Indexed`, `Error`, `Parsed`) and direct Web/PDF links.
* **Inspection Tools**:
  * **Chunk Inspector**: View the raw JSON, text, and vector content of any document chunk to debug indexing issues.
  * **TOC Editor**: Inspect and adjust the inferred section classifications from the Table of Contents.
* **Pipeline Controls**: Manually re-trigger the processing pipeline for specific documents directly from the UI.
* **Traceability**: Full visibility into processing errors, including raw error logs and stack traces preserved in the database.

## Technical Foundation

* **Containerized Architecture**: Fully dockerized.
* **Modern Frontend**: React + TypeScript.
* **Python Backend**: FastAPI + LangChain + Qdrant + Postgres.

## Configuring Evidence Lab for Your Documents

For more detailed instructions refer to

1. **Configure data sources**
   - Edit `config.json` in the repo root to define `datasources`, `data_subdir`, and `field_mapping`.
   - The UI reads the same `config.json` via Docker Compose.

2. **Set environment variables**
   - Copy `.env.example` to `.env`.
   - Fill in the API keys and service URLs required by the pipeline and UI.

3. **Add documents + metadata**
   - Save documents under `data/<data_subdir>/pdfs/<organization>/<year>/`.
   - For each document, include a JSON metadata file with the same base name.
   - If a download failed, add a `.error` file with the same base name (scanner records these).

   Example layout:
   ```
   data/
     uneg/
       pdfs/
         UNDP/
           2024/
             report_123.pdf
             report_123.json
             report_124.error
   ```

For more detailed information see the [Evidence Lab GihHub Repo](https://github.com/dividor/evidencelab).

Commit message:

docs: add pipeline and UI steps to tech page and link config files

ui/frontend/public/docs/tech.md, after:

## Document Processing Pipeline

The pipeline is modular and managed by `orchestrator.py`. If you put PDF/DOCX files in some folders, each with a metadata JSON file for extra information, orchestrator will do everything else.

**Note**: Individual processing modules for downloading content are external to this repository to separate sourcing from processing logic.

### 1. Parser (`parser.py`)

The parser has been designed to be inexpensive and relatively fast, while saving assets such as images and tables which can be reprocessed later with more advanced/expensive techniques as required. The current setup is ...

Uses [Docling](https://github.com/DS4SD/docling) for advanced document understanding, leveraging its [hierarchical structure capabilities](https://ds4sd.github.io/docling/concepts/chunking/).

* **Hierarchical Parsing**: Extracts the full document structure (headers, sections, paragraphs) rather than just flat text.
* **Rich Content Capture**:
  * **Images & Tables**: Identifies and extracts images of Figures and Tables, saving them as distinct assets.
  * **Markdown Generation**: Converts the document into a structured Markdown representation where images and tables are referenced by their path.
* **Post-Processing**:
  * **Hierarchy Inference**: Uses the [docling-hierarchical-pdf](https://github.com/krrome/docling-hierarchical-pdf) post-processor to reconstruct proper heading hierarchy (e.g., ensuring "1.1" is nested under "1.0") using font size and numbering heuristics.
  * **PyMuPDF TOC Fallback**: If Docling's TOC looks low quality or empty, the parser falls back to the PDF outline (bookmarks) via PyMuPDF.
  * **Superscript Identification**: Uses geometric analysis to identify unlinked superscripts (footnotes).
  * **Caption Classification**: Reclassifies headers that are actually captions to associate them correctly with images.
  * **Encoding Cleanup**: Fixes common encoding artifacts (e.g., ligatures, Unicode replacement characters).

### 2. Chunking & Enrichment (`chunker.py`)

Transforms raw parsed text into excerpts/chunks.

* **Hierarchical Chunking**: Respects semantic boundaries (paragraphs, headers) while adhering to token limits. Merges small "orphaned" text blocks with their robust neighbors.
* **Footnote Integration**:
  * **Detection**: Identifies inline citation markers (e.g., `^12`, `[12]`).
  * **Resolution**: Scans the entire document for the corresponding footnote definition and dynamically appends the footnote text to the chunk where it is cited. This ensures that chunks containing "See Reference 12" also contain the actual text of Reference 12 for searchability.
* **Visual Enrichment**:
  * **Image Association**: Uses bounding box geometry to spatially associate extracted images with the text chunks that physically surround or reference them (e.g., a chunk containing "Figure 1" gets the actual image of Figure 1 attached).
  * **Captions**: Ensures captions are bundled with their respective images and chunks.
* **Text Reconstruction**: Rebuilds the searchable text for each chunk by combining paragraph text and structured table content, ensuring tables are searchable.

### 3. Summarization (`summarizer.py`)

Generates comprehensive document summaries using a multi-strategy approach:

* **Methodology**:

See [here](https://medium.com/data-science-collective/automatically-identifying-taxonomies-from-documents-using-the-taxoadapt-algorithm-with-ca265d87bc08) for discussion on the summarization technique ...

LLM Summarization is done using a Map-Reduce process, splitting text into chunks and summarizing in parallel. The summaries are then reduced into a single summary using the LLM.

The chunks are determined by using the document structure and matching for sections with titles similar to 'Executive summary', 'Abstract', etc. If this isn't possible, the document is split into chunks and clustered according to semantic similarity. The clusters centroid is used to find representative chunks, which are then summarized.

### 4. Tagger (`tagger.py`)

Classifies every chunk into a taxonomy (`findings`, `methodology`, `executive_summary`, etc.). This is done using a hybrid approach that combines deterministic keyword rules with LLM-based classification for ambiguous headers, coupled with TOC propagation.

It should be noted this LLM/Heuristics approach is imperfect and meant as a way to seed the system. The user interface also supports being able to correct and approve section categories, to be used to train more accurate classification models in later phases.

**Taxonomy Classification**:
The system also supports configurable document-level taxonomies (defined in `config.json`). For example, classifying documents against **Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)**. This is performed by analyzing the comprehensive document summary with an LLM and storing the results as faceted tags in the search index.

### 5. Indexer (`indexer.py`)

Prepares and stores content in **Qdrant** with placeholders for a range of vector embedding models.

* **Multi-Vector Indexing**: Stores multiple vectors per chunk to support different retrieval strategies.
  * **Dense**: Semantic vectors (defaulting to `multilingual-e5-large`, with support for Azure Foundry `text-embedding-3` models).
  * **Sparse**: BM25 keyword vectors for exact term matching.
* **Model Agnostic**: Designed to swap embedding backends (Azure Foundry, Huggingface) via configuration.
* **Document Embeddings**: Generates a separate "Document Level" embedding (Title + Summary) to support "More like this" recommendations at the document level.

## Search & Discovery

A production-grade search experience powered by hybrid retrieval and AI.

* **Hybrid Search (RRF)**: Uses Reciprocal Rank Fusion to mathematically combine results from Semantic Search (Dense) and Keyword Search (Sparse). This captures both "conceptual matches" and "exact phrase matches".
* **Intelligent Reranking**: Optionally applies a reranking step to re-score the top results, significantly improving precision. Supports Cohere Rerank (via Azure Foundry) and Jina Reranker (via Huggingface).
* **Recency Boosting**: Applies a Gaussian decay function to boost newer documents while retaining relevance for older, highly distinct matches.
* **Faceted Navigation**: Filter by Organization, Year, Language, and Format.
* **Cross-Lingual features**:
  * **Translation**: Translate search results (titles + snippets) into 10+ languages on request.
  * **Semantic Highlighting**: Highlights relevant phrases in the result snippet effectively, even when the search terms are in a different language from the result.
* **AI Search Summary**: Generates a direct answer to the user's query by synthesizing the top search results.
* **Preview & Deep-Linking**: Integrated PDF viewer that opens directly to the specific page and highlights the relevant paragraph.

## Administration & Observability

Tools for managing the pipeline and data quality.

* **Documents Dashboard**: Visual breakdown of the corpus by Agency, Year, Type, and Language.
* **Data Grid**: Filterable table of all documents with status tracking (`Indexed`, `Error`, `Parsed`) and direct Web/PDF links.
* **Inspection Tools**:
  * **Chunk Inspector**: View the raw JSON, text, and vector content of any document chunk to debug indexing issues.
  * **TOC Editor**: Inspect and adjust the inferred section classifications from the Table of Contents.
* **Pipeline Controls**: Manually re-trigger the processing pipeline for specific documents directly from the UI.
* **Traceability**: Full visibility into processing errors, including raw error logs and stack traces preserved in the database.

## Technical Foundation

* **Containerized Architecture**: Fully dockerized.
* **Modern Frontend**: React + TypeScript.
* **Python Backend**: FastAPI + LangChain + Qdrant + Postgres.

## Configuring Evidence Lab for Your Documents

For more detailed instructions refer to

1. **Configure data sources**
   - Edit [`config.json`](https://github.com/dividor/evidencelab/blob/main/config.json) in the repo root to define `datasources`, `data_subdir`, and `field_mapping`, along with fields to control how your documents are parsed.
   - The UI reads the same `config.json` via Docker Compose.

2. **Set environment variables**
   - Copy [`.env.example`](https://github.com/dividor/evidencelab/blob/main/.env.example) to `.env`.
   - Fill in the API keys and service URLs required by the pipeline and UI.

3. **Add documents + metadata**
   - Save documents under `data/<data_subdir>/pdfs/<organization>/<year>/`.
   - For each document, include a JSON metadata file with the same base name.
   - If a download failed, add a `.error` file with the same base name (scanner records these).

   Example layout:
   ```
   data/
     uneg/
       pdfs/
         UNDP/
           2024/
             report_123.pdf
             report_123.json
             report_124.error (optional, if download failed)
   ```

4. **Run the pipeline (Docker)**
   ```bash
   # Start services
   docker compose up -d --build

   # Run the orchestrator (example: UNEG)
   docker compose exec pipeline \
     python -m pipeline.orchestrator --data-source uneg --skip-download --num-records 10
   ```

5. **Access the Evidence Lab UI**
   - Open http://localhost:3000
   - Select your data source and search the indexed documents

For more detailed information see the [Evidence Lab GitHub Repo](https://github.com/dividor/evidencelab).
