README.md, before:

# Evidence Lab

[![CI](https://github.com/dividor/evidencelab/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/dividor/evidencelab/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.11+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

## Introduction

![Evidence Lab](ui/frontend/public/docs/images/evidence-lab.png)

Evidence lab is a free open source platform that provides a document pipeline, search, and AI-powered information discovery tools. The aim is to provide a quick start for those looking to use AI with their documents and a place where new ideas can be tested.

You can run the code yourself, or explore the online version at [evidencelab.ai](https://evidencelab.ai) which has so far been populated with 20,000 United Nations humanitarian evaluation reports sourced from the [United Nations Evaluation Group](https://www.un.org/evaluations) and 8,000 reports related to Fraud and Program Integrity as sourced from [The World Bank](https://www.worldbank.org/ext/en/home). See [Data](/data) for more information on these amazing documents.

If you would like to have your public documents added to Evidence Lab, or would like to contribute to the project, please reach out to [evidence-lab@astrobagel.com](mailto:evidence-lab@astrobagel.com).

Also, for the latest news check out the [AstroBagel Blog](https://medium.com/@astrobagel).

## Philosophy

Evidence Lab grew out of research work for the [AstroBagel Blog](https://medium.com/@astrobagel). The core design principles are:

* **Runs on a desktop** — the full pipeline can process 20,000 30-page documents in a week for less than $50
* **Configurable** — point it at a folder of PDFs and configure via a single `config.json`
* **Progressive complexity** — start with simple parsing and layer on richer features (image annotation, reranking) later without re-processing
* **Model-agnostic** — supports both open-source and proprietary embedding and LLM models
* **Observable** — built-in tools for monitoring pipeline progress and exploring AI retrieval quality

Some lofty, often conflicting, goals! Always a work in progress, and low-cost high-speed processing which runs on a desktop computer, does come with a few shortcuts. To run on a modest server, the user interface might not be the fastest out there (but can be if you add more processing power), and in not using expensive LLMs for parsing (only cheap ones!), the ingestion had to be tuned to the document data styles. That said, the design has tried to allow for future improvements.

## Features

Evidence lab document processing pipeline includes the following features:

1. Processing pipeline

- PDF/Word parsing with Docling, to include document structure detection
- Footnote and references, images and table detection
- Basic table extraction, with support for more expensive processing as required
- AI-assisted document summarization
- AI-assisted tagging of documents
- Indexing with Open (Huggingface) or proprietary models (Azure foundry, but extensible)

2. User interface

- Hybrid search with AI summary and reranking
- Experimental features such as heatmapper to tracking trends in content
- Filtering by metadata, in-document section types
- Search and reranking settings to explore different models
- Auto min score filtering using percentile-based thresholding (filters bottom 30% of results)
- Semantic highlighting in search results
- Basic language translation
- PDF preview with in-document search
- Administration views to track pipeline, documents, performance and errors

More features will be added soon, focused on document evidence analysis.

## Getting started

You can explore the hosted version at [evidencelab.ai](https://evidencelab.ai).

### Quick Start

1. **Configure data sources**
   - Edit `config.json` in the repo root to define `datasources`, `data_subdir`, `field_mapping`, and `taxonomies`.
   - The UI reads the same `config.json` via Docker Compose.

2. **Set environment variables**
   - Copy `.env.example` to `.env`.
   - Fill in the API keys and service URLs required by the pipeline and UI.

3. **Add documents + metadata**
   - Save documents under `data/<data_subdir>/pdfs/<organization>/<year>/`.
   - For each document, include a JSON metadata file with the same base name.
   - If a download failed, add a `.error` file with the same base name (scanner records these).

   Example layout:
   ```
   data/
     uneg/
       pdfs/
         UNDP/
           2024/
             report_123.pdf
             report_123.json
             report_124.error (if there was an error downloading the file)
   ```

4. **Run the pipeline (Docker)**
```bash
   # Start services
   docker compose up -d --build

   # Run the orchestrator (example: UNEG)
   docker compose exec pipeline \
     python -m pipeline.orchestrator --data-source uneg --skip-download --num-records 10
   ```

5. **Access the Evidence Lab UI**
   - Open http://localhost:3000
   - Select your data source and search the indexed documents

6. **Next steps**
   - See the technical deep dive for pipeline commands, downloaders, and architecture details:
     [`ui/frontend/public/docs/tech.md`](ui/frontend/public/docs/tech.md)

Commit message:

feat(ui): add optional Google Analytics with GDPR cookie consent
Add REACT_APP_GA_MEASUREMENT_ID env var to optionally enable Google
Analytics. A cookie consent popup appears on first visit; GA only loads
after the user accepts. The Privacy page dynamically shows analytics
details and a consent toggle when GA is configured. Pass the env var
through docker-compose.yml so it works in the containerised dev server.

README.md, after:

# Evidence Lab

[![CI](https://github.com/dividor/evidencelab/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/dividor/evidencelab/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.11+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

## Introduction

![Evidence Lab](ui/frontend/public/docs/images/evidence-lab.png)

Evidence lab is a free open source platform that provides a document pipeline, search, and AI-powered information discovery tools. The aim is to provide a quick start for those looking to use AI with their documents and a place where new ideas can be tested.

You can run the code yourself, or explore the online version at [evidencelab.ai](https://evidencelab.ai) which has so far been populated with 20,000 United Nations humanitarian evaluation reports sourced from the [United Nations Evaluation Group](https://www.un.org/evaluations) and 8,000 reports related to Fraud and Program Integrity as sourced from [The World Bank](https://www.worldbank.org/ext/en/home). See [Data](/data) for more information on these amazing documents.

If you would like to have your public documents added to Evidence Lab, or would like to contribute to the project, please reach out to [evidence-lab@astrobagel.com](mailto:evidence-lab@astrobagel.com).

Also, for the latest news check out the [AstroBagel Blog](https://medium.com/@astrobagel).

## Philosophy

Evidence Lab grew out of research work for the [AstroBagel Blog](https://medium.com/@astrobagel). The core design principles are:

* **Runs on a desktop** — the full pipeline can process 20,000 30-page documents in a week for less than $50
* **Configurable** — point it at a folder of PDFs and configure via a single `config.json`
* **Progressive complexity** — start with simple parsing and layer on richer features (image annotation, reranking) later without re-processing
* **Model-agnostic** — supports both open-source and proprietary embedding and LLM models
* **Observable** — built-in tools for monitoring pipeline progress and exploring AI retrieval quality

Some lofty, often conflicting, goals! Always a work in progress, and low-cost high-speed processing which runs on a desktop computer, does come with a few shortcuts. To run on a modest server, the user interface might not be the fastest out there (but can be if you add more processing power), and in not using expensive LLMs for parsing (only cheap ones!), the ingestion had to be tuned to the document data styles. That said, the design has tried to allow for future improvements.

## Features

Evidence lab document processing pipeline includes the following features:

1. Processing pipeline

- PDF/Word parsing with Docling, to include document structure detection
- Footnote and references, images and table detection
- Basic table extraction, with support for more expensive processing as required
- AI-assisted document summarization
- AI-assisted tagging of documents
- Indexing with Open (Huggingface) or proprietary models (Azure foundry, but extensible)

2. User interface

- Hybrid search with AI summary and reranking
- Experimental features such as heatmapper to tracking trends in content
- Filtering by metadata, in-document section types
- Search and reranking settings to explore different models
- Auto min score filtering using percentile-based thresholding (filters bottom 30% of results)
- Semantic highlighting in search results
- Basic language translation
- PDF preview with in-document search
- Administration views to track pipeline, documents, performance and errors

More features will be added soon, focused on document evidence analysis.

## Getting started

You can explore the hosted version at [evidencelab.ai](https://evidencelab.ai).

### Quick Start

1. **Configure data sources**
   - Edit `config.json` in the repo root to define `datasources`, `data_subdir`, `field_mapping`, and `taxonomies`.
   - The UI reads the same `config.json` via Docker Compose.

2. **Set environment variables**
   - Copy `.env.example` to `.env`.
   - Fill in the API keys and service URLs required by the pipeline and UI.
   - Optionally set `REACT_APP_GA_MEASUREMENT_ID` (e.g. `G-XXXXXXXXXX`) to enable Google Analytics with EU-compliant cookie consent. A consent popup is shown on first visit; tracking only activates after the user accepts.

3. **Add documents + metadata**
   - Save documents under `data/<data_subdir>/pdfs/<organization>/<year>/`.
   - For each document, include a JSON metadata file with the same base name.
   - If a download failed, add a `.error` file with the same base name (scanner records these).

   Example layout:
   ```
   data/
     uneg/
       pdfs/
         UNDP/
           2024/
             report_123.pdf
             report_123.json
             report_124.error (if there was an error downloading the file)
   ```

4. **Run the pipeline (Docker)**
```bash
   # Start services
   docker compose up -d --build

   # Run the orchestrator (example: UNEG)
   docker compose exec pipeline \
     python -m pipeline.orchestrator --data-source uneg --skip-download --num-records 10
   ```

5. **Access the Evidence Lab UI**
   - Open http://localhost:3000
   - Select your data source and search the indexed documents

6. **Next steps**
   - See the technical deep dive for pipeline commands, downloaders, and architecture details:
     [`ui/frontend/public/docs/tech.md`](ui/frontend/public/docs/tech.md)
